The first thing I wanted to
talk about are binary trees,
everyone familiar with binary trees.
If you're not familiar with binary trees,
either you have zero children,
one child, or two child, that is it.
So a binary tree simply just
looks like this for everybody.
If you're not familiar with it, this
right here is called a full binary tree.
Meaning that every single possible
node has two children and
it is perfectly in,
there's just no extra levels.
The levels completely filled
at every single style, so
that is called a full binary tree.
If you have one missing this is called
a partial complete binary tree and
why it is partial complete.
Is a complete binary tree would be this,
kind of odd that a partial
complete can have more nodes.
Where a complete binary
tree will have less nodes.
A complete binary tree just
simply means that every
single node has its max children on it.
So it's a little bit different than a full
fold being the greatest binary tree
possible.
But I figured everyone kind
of knows a binary tree.
I just wanted to say it just in case
people are a little bit behind on that.
So really what we're gonna focus
on is binary search trees.
So let's start there, if you're not
familiar with the binary search tree,
you can imagine that at any one node.
You have a link to a parent and
a link to potentially two children.
On this side of the binary tree,
everything is going to be less
than whatever is in the middle.
On this side of the binary tree,
everything is going to be greater
than what's on this side.
So if this side is Y, this side is X,
X is going to be lower
than whatever is in here.
And this side is going
to be always larger.
So that's kind of like a rule
you must have in your head.
Because the rest of the course
will make literally no sense for
the next two to three hours.
Or however long this takes to
get through the binary section
because it just is like,
we will use this to move children.
We'll use this to kind of visualize
how to walk through everything,
because it is just
fundamentally very important.
So I'll just do something
like this right here,
so is this value larger than z?
No, good job, right.
Any sub tree has to follow
the rules of its parents, good job.
This is a very special node, by the way,
we will cover that special node.
All right, so I just want to make sure
everyone just understands the basic
principles of binary search tree.
So let's actually write one out.
So I'll just go out here and
do 10, 8, 3, 9, 20.
You can have duplicates, and
there are algorithms that
talk about having duplicates.
But in general, when people are teaching
or talking about binary trees,
we never actually put duplicates in it.
There are things with B plus trees
in which there are duplicates, and
there are certain ways
you move things around.
But we're just not going to
do those today, sounds good?
All right, fantastic,
I like everyone's enthusiasm this morning.
All right, so
searching a binary tree is pretty simple.
If I had the value, say we had 15 in here,
you start at the tip-pity
top of the binary tree.
And since we have that really simple rule,
which is everything to one side of it,
is gonna be less than.
Everything to the other
side's gonna be greater than,
we just need to determine
are we this value?
Resounding no, exactly.
So should we go right or
should we go left?
>> Right.
>> Right, exactly.
So when we go right,
notice that something happened here.
Half of the binary tree just
became completely invalid.
We don't even have to look
at that entire half side.
So that means we just eliminated one
half of all possibilities if this binary
tree is nicely balanced like this.
So we do it again, are we greater than,
less than, or equal to this point?
>> Less.
>> Less than, so
which direction should we go?
>> Left.
>> Left, perfect.
So when we go left,
notice what happened again.
Another one half of the remaining
tree has been cut out again.
Or in other words, one fourth of
the total tree has been cut out.
And so at this point we land here,
we realize we are this value,
therefore this value is
contained in this tree.
Even though there are seven
unique values in here,
it took us three checks
to get to this point.
And so as the trees expand when we
double the amount of nodes by having one
more row.
We can still do that cutting
out in a really fast space.
Now notice that it only takes
four checks to find out if there
is a node in this tree.
As opposed to I forget how many that is,
what we at seven, that's 15 nodes.
It'd be 15, and we're only doing four
checks, so it just grows really slow.
That growth is called logarithmic,
meaning that search is going to be
log of n lookup, n being,
how many nodes there are.
Or another way to put it,
is that it takes the height of the tree
amount of searching to find a node,
sounds good.
Don't worry,
we'll be not super hard on the math today.
Just because I mean, we'll do some
quick maths, but not a lot of maths.
Because either I can show you the
algorithms or we can focus on analysis and
there's just there's not a lot
of time to do all of it.
So we're gonna kind of focus on,
I think, the good parts.
Because once you understand
how to do some analyzing.
It's gonna get easier for
you to kinda pick up these algorithms and
really understand why they are runtime.